docs/configuration/authentication/shibboleth.md, before:

# Shibboleth

In order to use Shibboleth with RDMO, it needs to be deployed in a production environment using Apache2. The Setup is documented [here](../../deployment/apache).

Next, install the Shibboleth Apache module for the service provider (SP) from your distribution repository, e.g. for Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-shib2
```

Under Ubuntu 18.04 LTS the `libapache2-mod-shib2` package is broken. A working description on how to install the SPcan be found under [SWITCHaai guides](https://www.switch.ch/aai/guides/sp/installation/?os=ubuntu).



In addition, a version of the [django-shibboleth-remoteuser](https://github.com/Brown-University-Library/django-shibboleth-remoteuser) needs to be installed in your RDMO virtual environment. In order to prevent [encoding issues](https://github.com/rdmorganiser/rdmo/issues/77) in the names of users there is a fork of this repo available under [`rdmorganiser/django-shibboleth-remoteuser`](https://github.com/rdmorganiser/django-shibboleth-remoteuser) on Github, which can be readily installed via:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/rdmorganiser/django-shibboleth-remoteuser
```

Configure your Shibboleth service provider using the files in `/etc/shibboleth/`. This may vary depending on your Identity Provider. RDMO needs the `REMOTE_USER` to be set and 4 attributes from your identity provider:

* a username (usually `eppn`)
* an E-mail address (usually `mail` or `email`)
* a first name (usually `givenName`)
* a last name (usually `sn`)

In our test environment this is accomplished by editing `/etc/shibboleth/shibboleth2.xml`:

```xml
<ApplicationDefaults entityID="https://sp.test.rdmo.org/shibboleth"
    REMOTE_USER="eppn"
    cipherSuites="DEFAULT:!EXP:!LOW:!aNULL:!eNULL:!DES:!IDEA:!SEED:!RC4:!3DES:!kRSA:!SSLv2:!SSLv3:!TLSv1:!TLSv1.1">
```

The `REMOTE_USER` does not have to be `eppn`. Please make sure that the field matches what is delivered by your Identity Provider (IdP). If the login does not work, a wrong configuration here is usually the problem.

In addition edit `/etc/shibboleth/attribute-map.xml` for:

```xml
<Attribute name="urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.5923.1.1.1.6" id="eppn">
    <AttributeDecoder xsi:type="ScopedAttributeDecoder" caseSensitive="false"/>
</Attribute>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.1" id="uid"/>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:2.5.4.4" id="sn"/>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:2.5.4.42" id="givenName"/>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.3" id="mail"/>
```

Restart the Shibboleth service provider demon.

```bash
service shibd restart
```

In your Apache2 virtual host configuration, add:

```apache
<Location /Shibboleth.sso>
    SetHandler shib
</Location>
<LocationMatch /account/shibboleth/login/>
    AuthType shibboleth
    require shibboleth
    ShibRequireSession On
    ShibUseHeaders On
</LocationMatch>
```

In your `config/settings/local.py` add or uncomment:

```python
from rdmo.core.settings import INSTALLED_APPS, AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS, MIDDLEWARE

SHIBBOLETH = True
PROFILE_UPDATE = False
PROFILE_DELETE = False

INSTALLED_APPS += ['shibboleth']

AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS.append('shibboleth.backends.ShibbolethRemoteUserBackend')
MIDDLEWARE.insert(
    MIDDLEWARE.index('django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware') + 1,
    'shibboleth.middleware.ShibbolethRemoteUserMiddleware'
)

SHIBBOLETH_ATTRIBUTE_MAP = {
    'uid': (True, 'username'),
    'givenName': (True, 'first_name'),
    'sn': (True, 'last_name'),
    'mail': (True, 'email'),
}

# Optional, regular expression to identify usernames created with Shibboleth,
# those users will be directed to SHIBBOLETH_LOGOUT_URL on logout, others will not.
# If not set, all users will be redirected to SHIBBOLETH_LOGOUT_URL.
SHIBBOLETH_USERNAME_PATTERN = r'@example.com$' 

# Can be used to display the regular login form next to the Shibboleth login button.
LOGIN_FORM = False

LOGOUT_URL = '/account/shibboleth/logout/'
```

where the keys of `SHIBBOLETH_ATTRIBUTE_MAP` needs to be modified according to your setup. The setting `SHIBBOLETH = True` disables the regular login form in RDMO, and tells RDMO to disable the update or delete form for the user profile, so that users can neither update their credentials nor delete their profile anymore. Note that profile deletion is technically impossible because RDMO can not delete from the Shibboleth database. The `INSTALLED_APPS`, `AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS`, and `MIDDLEWARE` settings enable django-shibboleth-remoteuser to be used with RDMO.

The setting `LOGOUT_URL` **should not** be set to the logout endpoint of the service provider (an earlier version of the docs said so). After the logout in Django, RDMO will redirect to the `SHIBBOLETH_LOGOUT_URL` setting, which is `/Shibboleth.sso/Logout` by default.

Restart the webserver.

```bash
service apache2 restart
```

Certain Attributes from the Shibboleth Identity Provider can be mapped to Django groups, in particular to restrict the access to Catalogs and Views. This can be done by adding the following settings:

```python
SHIBBOLETH_GROUP_ATTRIBUTES = ['eduPersonScopedAffiliation']
```

In this case, the attribute `eduPersonScopedAffiliation` contains a comma separated list of groups which will be created in RDMO (if they don't exist yet) and the user will be added into these groups. Due to a limitation by [django-shibboleth-remoteuser](https://github.com/Brown-University-Library/django-shibboleth-remoteuser) the user will also be **removed from all other groups**.

## Legacy Shibboleth setup

Before RDMO 1.11.0, we suggested a slightly different Shibboleth setup, which can still be used. The main difference is that the Shibboleth service provider "catches" every request to RDMO.

```apache
<Location /Shibboleth.sso>
    SetHandler shib
</Location>
<LocationMatch /(account|domain|options|projects|questions|tasks|conditions|views)>
    AuthType shibboleth
    require shibboleth
    ShibRequireSession On
    ShibUseHeaders On
</LocationMatch>
```

In order to keep this setup in RDMO after 1.11.0 you need to disable `SHIBBOLETH_LOGIN_URL`:

```python
SHIBBOLETH_LOGIN_URL = None
```

## Alternative to Shibboleth: Keycloak and Satosa

Before RDMO 1.11.0, the installation of Shibboleth excluded the use other authentication providers for RDMO. When it is preferred to enable authentication to a Shibboleth Identity Provider and other 3rd party providers in parallel, an alternative configuration can be set up. A keycloak instance and a SATOSA proxy can be used for this purpose.

In order for the keycloak instance to be able to authenticate with the a Shibboleth-based IdP (eg. [DFN-AAI](https://doku.tid.dfn.de/de:dfnaai:start)) another service needs to be installed and configured as Identity Provider for keycloak.

This service is a [SATOSA proxy](https://github.com/IdentityPython/SATOSA), which translates the communication between different authentication protocols. Then, the [SATOSA proxy](https://github.com/IdentityPython/SATOSA) needs to be registered as a Service Provider inside the DFN-AAI. Finally, the Identity Provider
 of the institute needs to add this SATOSA proxy as a Service Provider to enable the institutional login and authentication.
The [attributes of the DFN-AAI](https://doku.tid.dfn.de/de:aai:attributes_best_practice) which are requested and transferred can be mapped in keycloak and passed on to the `django-allauth` login in RDMO.

Commit message:

docs: add link to alternatives for shibboleth

docs/configuration/authentication/shibboleth.md, after:

# Shibboleth

In order to use Shibboleth with RDMO, it needs to be deployed in a production environment using Apache2. The Setup is documented [here](../../deployment/apache).

Next, install the Shibboleth Apache module for the service provider (SP) from your distribution repository, e.g. for Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-shib2
```

Under Ubuntu 18.04 LTS the `libapache2-mod-shib2` package is broken. A working description on how to install the SPcan be found under [SWITCHaai guides](https://www.switch.ch/aai/guides/sp/installation/?os=ubuntu).



In addition, a version of the [django-shibboleth-remoteuser](https://github.com/Brown-University-Library/django-shibboleth-remoteuser) needs to be installed in your RDMO virtual environment. In order to prevent [encoding issues](https://github.com/rdmorganiser/rdmo/issues/77) in the names of users there is a fork of this repo available under [`rdmorganiser/django-shibboleth-remoteuser`](https://github.com/rdmorganiser/django-shibboleth-remoteuser) on Github, which can be readily installed via:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/rdmorganiser/django-shibboleth-remoteuser
```

Configure your Shibboleth service provider using the files in `/etc/shibboleth/`. This may vary depending on your Identity Provider. RDMO needs the `REMOTE_USER` to be set and 4 attributes from your identity provider:

* a username (usually `eppn`)
* an E-mail address (usually `mail` or `email`)
* a first name (usually `givenName`)
* a last name (usually `sn`)

In our test environment this is accomplished by editing `/etc/shibboleth/shibboleth2.xml`:

```xml
<ApplicationDefaults entityID="https://sp.test.rdmo.org/shibboleth"
    REMOTE_USER="eppn"
    cipherSuites="DEFAULT:!EXP:!LOW:!aNULL:!eNULL:!DES:!IDEA:!SEED:!RC4:!3DES:!kRSA:!SSLv2:!SSLv3:!TLSv1:!TLSv1.1">
```

The `REMOTE_USER` does not have to be `eppn`. Please make sure that the field matches what is delivered by your Identity Provider (IdP). If the login does not work, a wrong configuration here is usually the problem.

In addition edit `/etc/shibboleth/attribute-map.xml` for:

```xml
<Attribute name="urn:oid:1.3.6.1.4.1.5923.1.1.1.6" id="eppn">
    <AttributeDecoder xsi:type="ScopedAttributeDecoder" caseSensitive="false"/>
</Attribute>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.1" id="uid"/>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:2.5.4.4" id="sn"/>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:2.5.4.42" id="givenName"/>
<Attribute name="urn:oid:0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.3" id="mail"/>
```

Restart the Shibboleth service provider demon.

```bash
service shibd restart
```

In your Apache2 virtual host configuration, add:

```apache
<Location /Shibboleth.sso>
    SetHandler shib
</Location>
<LocationMatch /account/shibboleth/login/>
    AuthType shibboleth
    require shibboleth
    ShibRequireSession On
    ShibUseHeaders On
</LocationMatch>
```

In your `config/settings/local.py` add or uncomment:

```python
from rdmo.core.settings import INSTALLED_APPS, AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS, MIDDLEWARE

SHIBBOLETH = True
PROFILE_UPDATE = False
PROFILE_DELETE = False

INSTALLED_APPS += ['shibboleth']

AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS.append('shibboleth.backends.ShibbolethRemoteUserBackend')
MIDDLEWARE.insert(
    MIDDLEWARE.index('django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware') + 1,
    'shibboleth.middleware.ShibbolethRemoteUserMiddleware'
)

SHIBBOLETH_ATTRIBUTE_MAP = {
    'uid': (True, 'username'),
    'givenName': (True, 'first_name'),
    'sn': (True, 'last_name'),
    'mail': (True, 'email'),
}

# Optional, regular expression to identify usernames created with Shibboleth,
# those users will be directed to SHIBBOLETH_LOGOUT_URL on logout, others will not.
# If not set, all users will be redirected to SHIBBOLETH_LOGOUT_URL.
SHIBBOLETH_USERNAME_PATTERN = r'@example.com$' 

# Can be used to display the regular login form next to the Shibboleth login button.
LOGIN_FORM = False

LOGOUT_URL = '/account/shibboleth/logout/'
```

where the keys of `SHIBBOLETH_ATTRIBUTE_MAP` needs to be modified according to your setup. The setting `SHIBBOLETH = True` disables the regular login form in RDMO, and tells RDMO to disable the update or delete form for the user profile, so that users can neither update their credentials nor delete their profile anymore. Note that profile deletion is technically impossible because RDMO can not delete from the Shibboleth database. The `INSTALLED_APPS`, `AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS`, and `MIDDLEWARE` settings enable django-shibboleth-remoteuser to be used with RDMO.

The setting `LOGOUT_URL` **should not** be set to the logout endpoint of the service provider (an earlier version of the docs said so). After the logout in Django, RDMO will redirect to the `SHIBBOLETH_LOGOUT_URL` setting, which is `/Shibboleth.sso/Logout` by default.

Restart the webserver.

```bash
service apache2 restart
```

Certain Attributes from the Shibboleth Identity Provider can be mapped to Django groups, in particular to restrict the access to Catalogs and Views. This can be done by adding the following settings:

```python
SHIBBOLETH_GROUP_ATTRIBUTES = ['eduPersonScopedAffiliation']
```

In this case, the attribute `eduPersonScopedAffiliation` contains a comma separated list of groups which will be created in RDMO (if they don't exist yet) and the user will be added into these groups. Due to a limitation by [django-shibboleth-remoteuser](https://github.com/Brown-University-Library/django-shibboleth-remoteuser) the user will also be **removed from all other groups**.

## Legacy Shibboleth setup

Before RDMO 1.11.0, we suggested a slightly different Shibboleth setup, which can still be used. The main difference is that the Shibboleth service provider "catches" every request to RDMO.

```apache
<Location /Shibboleth.sso>
    SetHandler shib
</Location>
<LocationMatch /(account|domain|options|projects|questions|tasks|conditions|views)>
    AuthType shibboleth
    require shibboleth
    ShibRequireSession On
    ShibUseHeaders On
</LocationMatch>
```

In order to keep this setup in RDMO after 1.11.0 you need to disable `SHIBBOLETH_LOGIN_URL`:

```python
SHIBBOLETH_LOGIN_URL = None
```

## Alternatives to Shibboleth

Please look under [django-allauth](./allauth.html#other-3rd-party-authentication-solutions) for information on other possible alternatives.

### Keycloak and Satosa

Before RDMO 1.11.0, the installation of Shibboleth excluded the use other authentication providers for RDMO. When it is preferred to enable authentication to a Shibboleth Identity Provider and other 3rd party providers in parallel, an alternative configuration can be set up. A keycloak instance and a SATOSA proxy can be used for this purpose.

In order for the keycloak instance to be able to authenticate with the a Shibboleth-based IdP (eg. [DFN-AAI](https://doku.tid.dfn.de/de:dfnaai:start)) another service needs to be installed and configured as Identity Provider for keycloak.

This service is a [SATOSA proxy](https://github.com/IdentityPython/SATOSA), which translates the communication between different authentication protocols. Then, the [SATOSA proxy](https://github.com/IdentityPython/SATOSA) needs to be registered as a Service Provider inside the DFN-AAI. Finally, the Identity Provider
 of the institute needs to add this SATOSA proxy as a Service Provider to enable the institutional login and authentication.
The [attributes of the DFN-AAI](https://doku.tid.dfn.de/de:aai:attributes_best_practice) which are requested and transferred can be mapped in keycloak and passed on to the `django-allauth` login in RDMO.
