docs/upgrade/index.md, before:

# Upgrade

The `rdmo` package can be conveniently upgraded using the `pip` command. However, before you perform any changes to your installation, please backup the important components to a save location.

A PostgreSQL or MySQL database can be database can be dumped into a file using:

```bash
pg_dump [DBNAME] > rdmo.sql  # PostgreSQL
mysqldump -uroot -p [DBNAME] > rdmo.sql
```

Your `rdmo-app` directory (including any sqlite3 database) can be copied using the usual commands. Note that your virtual environment will not work after being moved to a different path.

In order to upgrade your RDMO installation go to your `rdmo-app` directory, activate your virtual environment, and upgrade the `rdmo` package using `pip`:

```bash
pip install --upgrade rdmo
```

In order to install a specific version (e.g. 0.9.0) of RDMO use:

```bash
pip install --upgrade rdmo==0.9.0
```

After the upgrade a database migration might be necessary:

```bash
python manage.py migrate
```

Sometimes, the static vendor files need to be downloaded again:

```bash
python manage.py download_vendor_files
```

In any case you have to deploy the changes:

```
python manage.py deploy
```

The last three commands can be combined using:

```
python manage.py upgrade
```

Please check the release notes if this, or other, steps are necessary.

## Upgrade to version 2.0.0

With version 2.0.0 we changed the data model and introduced pages, but this transition should be automatically applied using the database migrations.

We also reworked the rdmo package and updated some dependencies. Therefore, **if you use allauth for authentification** you need to update this dependency seperately from now using:

```bash
pip install rdmo[allauth]
```

You also need to add the following to your `config/settings/local.py`:

```python
from . import MIDDLEWARE  # if this import is not alreay present in the file
MIDDLEWARE.append('allauth.account.middleware.AccountMiddleware')
```

RDMO 2.0.0 uses Django 4.2, which removed some functions. If you use

```python
from django.utils.translation import ugettext_lazy as _
```

in your `config/settings/local.py`, you need to change this to

```python
from django.utils.translation import gettext_lazy as _
```

We also refactored the `rdmo-app`, which people clone to start using RDMO. You should still be able to use your old `rdmo-app`, but you might take a look at <https://github.com/rdmorganiser/rdmo-app> and adopt some of the new layout to your installation.

## Upgrade to version 0.9.0

With version 0.9.0 we introduced the split into the `rdmo-app` and the centrally maintained `rdmo` package. Therefore a few additional steps are needed to upgrade any earlier version to 0.9.0 or beyond:

1.  In any case perform a backup of your `rdmo` directory and your database as described above.

1.  Perform the steps described in [clone](../installation/clone.html) and [packages](../installation/packages.html) as if you would install a new instance of RDMO.

1.  Copy your old configuration from `/path/to/old/rdmo/rdmo/settings/local.py` to `/path/to/new/rdmo-app/config/settings/local.py`. The new `config` directory replaces the old `rdmo` directory.

1.  If you already have a `theme` directory, copy it into the new `rdmo-app` folder.

1.  Run a database migration (Unless you skipped several versions, the output should be `No migrations to apply.`):

    ```bash
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

1.  Download the front-end files from the CDN. We don't use bower and npm anymore.

    ```bash
    python manage.py download_vendor_files
    ```

1.  Update the path to the `wsgi.py` script in your Apache or nginx configuration. It is now under `/path/to/new/rdmo-app/config/wsgi.py`.

1.  Redeploy RDMO as described under deployment of [Apache](../deployment/apache.html) or [Nginx](../deployment/nginx.html).

If you have trouble with the upgrade process, don't hesitate to contact the RDMO team for support.

## Upgrade to version 0.14

With version 0.14 the Python 2 support was dropped and we switched to Django 2.2. This demands two changes to the local `rdmo-app`:

* Adjust RDMO app's `config/urls.py` to Django2 schemes. The file is much simpler and shorter now. A working example can be found at https://github.com/rdmorganiser/rdmo-app/blob/master/config/urls.py
* MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES in `config/settings/local.py` needs to be renamed to `MIDDLEWARE` only

Commit message:

chore: minor rewrites for text, add warning about makemigrations

docs/upgrade/index.md, after:

# Upgrade

The `rdmo` package can be conveniently upgraded using the `pip` command. However, before you perform any changes to your installation, please backup the important components to a save location.

A PostgreSQL or MySQL database can be database can be dumped into a file using:

```bash
pg_dump [DBNAME] > rdmo.sql  # PostgreSQL
mysqldump -uroot -p [DBNAME] > rdmo.sql
```

Your `rdmo-app` directory (including any sqlite3 database) can be copied using the usual commands. Note that your virtual environment will not work after being moved to a different path.

In order to upgrade your RDMO installation go to your `rdmo-app` directory, activate your virtual environment, and upgrade the `rdmo` package using `pip`:

```bash
pip install --upgrade rdmo
```

In order to install a specific version (e.g. 0.9.0) of RDMO use:

```bash
pip install --upgrade rdmo==0.9.0
```

After the upgrade a database migration might be necessary:

```bash
python manage.py migrate
```

Sometimes, the static vendor files need to be downloaded again:

```bash
python manage.py download_vendor_files
```

In any case you have to deploy the changes:

```
python manage.py deploy
```

The last three commands can be combined using:

```
python manage.py upgrade
```

Please check the release notes if this, or other, steps are necessary.

## Upgrade to version 2.0.0

With version 2.0.0 we have changed the data model and introduced pages, but this transition should automatically be applied to your content with the database migrations.

We have also reworked the rdmo package and updated some dependencies. Therefore, **when you use allauth for authentification**, you need to update this dependency seperately from now on by using:

```bash
pip install rdmo[allauth]
```

You also need to add the following to your `config/settings/local.py`:

```python
from . import MIDDLEWARE  # if this import is not alreay present in the file
MIDDLEWARE.append('allauth.account.middleware.AccountMiddleware')
```

RDMO 2.0.0 uses Django 4.2, which removed some functions. If you use

```python
from django.utils.translation import ugettext_lazy as _
```

in your `config/settings/local.py`, you need to change this to

```python
from django.utils.translation import gettext_lazy as _
```

We have also refactored the `rdmo-app`, which people clone to start using RDMO. You should still be able to use your old `rdmo-app`, but you might take a look at <https://github.com/rdmorganiser/rdmo-app> and adopt some of the new layout to your installation.

## Upgrade to version 0.9.0

With version 0.9.0 we introduced the split into the `rdmo-app` and the centrally maintained `rdmo` package. Therefore a few additional steps are needed to upgrade any earlier version to 0.9.0 or beyond:

1.  In any case perform a backup of your `rdmo` directory and your database as described above.

1.  Perform the steps described in [clone](../installation/clone.html) and [packages](../installation/packages.html) as if you would install a new instance of RDMO.

1.  Copy your old configuration from `/path/to/old/rdmo/rdmo/settings/local.py` to `/path/to/new/rdmo-app/config/settings/local.py`. The new `config` directory replaces the old `rdmo` directory.

1.  If you already have a `theme` directory, copy it into the new `rdmo-app` folder.

1.  Run a database migration (Unless you skipped several versions, the output should be `No migrations to apply.`):

    ```bash
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

1.  Download the front-end files from the CDN. We don't use bower and npm anymore.

    ```bash
    python manage.py download_vendor_files
    ```

1.  Update the path to the `wsgi.py` script in your Apache or nginx configuration. It is now under `/path/to/new/rdmo-app/config/wsgi.py`.

1.  Redeploy RDMO as described under deployment of [Apache](../deployment/apache.html) or [Nginx](../deployment/nginx.html).

If you have trouble with the upgrade process, don't hesitate to contact the RDMO team for support.

## Upgrade to version 0.14

With version 0.14 the Python 2 support was dropped and we switched to Django 2.2. This demands two changes to the local `rdmo-app`:

* Adjust RDMO app's `config/urls.py` to Django2 schemes. The file is much simpler and shorter now. A working example can be found at https://github.com/rdmorganiser/rdmo-app/blob/master/config/urls.py
* MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES in `config/settings/local.py` needs to be renamed to `MIDDLEWARE` only

---
```eval_rst
.. warning::
    RDMO contains all the necessary migrations. For consistency of the database,
    please do **not** run the ``makemigrations`` command. When Django asks you for it, please contact support.
```
