# Installation

For demonstration, development or testing purposes, RDMO can be installed on your personal computer. RDMO runs on
 Linux, Windows and macOS. If you, however, want to launch RDMO as a web service, over a Network or the Internet, 
 we suggest that you use a recent Linux distribution. For deployment to a production environment, we suggest to use Debian or Ubuntu LTS.

The code is mainly written in Python and works with versions **Python 3.8** or higher.

An installation of RDMO consists of three parts:

1) A directory which holds all the configuration (settings and customisations) specific to your installation of RDMO. We call this directory `rdmo-app`, but you can use any name you see fit.
2) The actual `rdmo` package, which is centrally maintained and released by the RDMO team, is installed as a dependency in your local virtual python environment.
3) A database, to store the content which is generated by the users of your RDMO instance. Currently, we support Postgres, MySQL, and SQLite. Access to the database is configured in the `rdmo-app` file.

This chapter shows how these components are set up. Optional components can be installed afterwards and are covered under [Configuration](../configuration/index). A development setup, suited to work on the code or on plugins, is documented under [Development](../development/index) .

For testing and development, you can run RDMO using your regular user account of your operating system. On a production system, a dedicated user account should be used. We suggest to create a user called `rdmo` with the group `rdmo` and the home directory `/srv/rdmo`: `sudo adduser rdmo --home /srv/rdmo` . We will use this user throughout this documentation.

Do not use the `root` user to run RDMO! It is a bad idea anyway and several steps of the installation will not work. `sudo` is used in the installation when needing root-privileges to install packages.

---

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2

prerequisites
clone
packages
setup
```
