docs/installation/setup.md, before:

# Setup the application

## Basic setup

To set up the application, create a new file `config/settings/local.py` in your cloned `rdmo-app` directory. For the example user with the home `/srv/rdmo`, this would now be `/srv/rdmo/rdmo-app/config/settings/local.py`. This file holds the main configuration of your RDMO installation. The file is ignored by git, so when you version your `rdmo-app` on e.g. GitHub, the information in this file is not disclosed. This is nessesary, since the file contains passwords and other secret, machine-specific information.

You can use `config/settings/sample.local.py` as template, i.e.:

```bash
cp config/settings/sample.local.py config/settings/local.py    # on Linux or macOS
copy config\settings\sample.local.py config\settings\local.py  # on Windows
```

Most of the settings of your RDMO instance are specified in this file. The different settings are explained in detail [later in the documentation](../configuration/index.html). For a minimal configuration, you need to set `DEBUG = True` to see verbose error messages and serve static files, and `SECRET_KEY` to a long random string, which you will keep secret. Your database connection is configured using the `DATABASES` variable. Database configuration is covered [here in the documentation](../configuration/databases.html) and has to be configured first. If no `DATABASE` setting is given `sqlite3` will be used as database backend.

Then, initialize the application, using:

```bash
python manage.py migrate                # initializes the database
python manage.py createsuperuser        # creates the admin user
```

## Third party vendor files

By default third party vendor files (like jQuery or Bootstrap javascripts) are retrieved from the content delivery networks that they are hosted on. If you would like to avoid third party requests you could host them yourself. This can be achieved easily with two simple steps.

1. download the vendor files from the cdns by running the provided script
    ```python
    python manage.py download_vendor_files
    ```

2. make sure your `local.py` does contain the following line
    ```python
    VENDOR_CDN = False
    ```

## RDMO development server

After these steps, RDMO can be run using Djangos integrated development server:
```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

Then, RDMO is available on http://127.0.0.1:8000 in your (local) browser. The different ways RDMO can be deployed are covered in the next chapter. The newly installed RDMO instance is still empty, i.e. no questionnaire or views are available. They need to be [imported](../management/export.html) and/or created as described under [Management](../management/index.html).

Commit message:

chore: add tabbed code blocks and minor edits to text

docs/installation/setup.md, after:

# Setup the application

## Basic setup

To set up the application, create a new file `config/settings/local.py` in your cloned `rdmo-app` directory. For the example user with the home `/srv/rdmo`, this would now be `/srv/rdmo/rdmo-app/config/settings/local.py`. This file holds the main configuration of your RDMO installation. The file is ignored by git, so when you version your `rdmo-app` on e.g. GitHub, the information in this file is not disclosed. This is nessesary, since the file contains passwords and other secret, machine-specific information.

You can use `config/settings/sample.local.py` as template, i.e.:

```eval_rst
.. tabs::

   .. code-tab:: sh Linux/MacOS

      cp config/settings/sample.local.py config/settings/local.py

   .. code-tab:: shell Windows

      copy config\settings\sample.local.py config\settings\local.py
```

Most of the settings of your RDMO instance are specified in this file. The different settings are explained in detail [later in the documentation](../configuration/index.html). For a minimal configuration, you need to set `DEBUG = True` to see verbose error messages and serve static files, and `SECRET_KEY` to a long random string, which you will keep secret. Your database connection is configured using the `DATABASES` variable. Database configuration is covered [here in the documentation](../configuration/databases.html) and has to be configured first. If no `DATABASE` setting is given `sqlite3` will be used as database backend.

Then, initialize the application, using:

```bash
python manage.py migrate                # initializes the database
python manage.py createsuperuser        # creates the admin user
```

## Third party vendor files

By default third party vendor files (like jQuery or Bootstrap javascripts) are retrieved from the content delivery networks that they are hosted on. If you would like to avoid third party requests you could host them yourself. This can be achieved easily with two simple steps.

1. download the vendor files from the cdns by running the provided script
    ```python
    python manage.py download_vendor_files
    ```

2. make sure your `local.py` does contain the following line
    ```python
    VENDOR_CDN = False
    ```

## RDMO development server

After these steps, RDMO can be run using Djangos integrated development server:
```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

Then, RDMO is available on http://127.0.0.1:8000 (or http://localhost:8000/) in your (local) browser. The different ways in which RDMO can be deployed are covered in the next chapter. The newly installed RDMO instance is still empty, i.e. there are no questionnaires, attributes, views, etc. available. They need to be [imported](../management/export.html) and/or created as described under [Management](../management/index.html).
